Hello there!
I’m here to walk you through the steps of creating a virtual class,
as this delivery type can be a bit more complex.
Let’s dive in and explore the key information in the main tab!
On the Define Class page, add or review the following information:
In the Class Details section:
The “title” will automatically be inherited from the course,
this field cannot be modified at the class level.
The “Class ID” field is system-generated,
it will only be saved once you select “Finish” at this page.
The “Domain” field must remain as ESDC.
The “Description” field is optional.
You can use this field to provide additional details
about the class that are not covered in the course description.
For this example, I will type:
This session will be facilitated by the Saba team.
The “Course Description” field is inherited from the course,
this field cannot be modified at the class level.
In the Scheduling Details section:
Select the Start Date Icon to open the Calendar view
to select the Start Date of your class.
The End Date will be generated by the
Session Template you choose
once you select Finish at the end
of this page to save your information.
A pop-up window will open,
you must select the start date of the class.
Once you have selected the date,
the pop-up window will close automatically,
and you will be back at the scheduling details section
to add more information.
Select the Session Template icon to open the window.
Choose the desired Session Template by
selecting the radio button under the “Select” column.
Click the Select and Modify button to modify the time.
Select the number 1 under the “Session” column
to edit the time of the class.
Modify the time, make sure to follow the
identified format and select Save.
You will be brought back to the Edit
Scheduling Information pop-up window.
Once you confirm that the time has been updated,
select the Finish button.
A pop-up window will display with the following message:
“After modifying a Session Template, the changes cannot be viewed until the class is saved”.
Select OK.
Click the Location icon to set the time zone for Virtual deliveries.
This ensures learners see the correct class start and end times.
In the “Name” field, type the letters “vir”
and then click Search to display a list of possible time zones.
Select the appropriate time zone.
Once selected, you will be brought back
to the Scheduling Details section.
Click on the Pick language
Icon to open the Select Language pop-up window.
Select the Search button to display the available language options.
Please note that the language choices
are inherited from the course level.
If not added, return to the course level
and add them under the Policies tab.
Select the language of the class.
Once the language selected, the Select Language
pop-up window will close,
and you will be brought back to the Scheduling Details section.
You will now see all the information
added in your Scheduling Details section such as the:
Start date, Session Template,
Duration, Location and Language.